# Floating Point numbers:

- **Accuracy** and **precision** are two concepts in measurement that nicely capture the different properties of ints and floats (on any system, independent of the particular floating point representation used). "Accuracy" refers to how close a measurement is to the true value, whereas "precision" has to do with how much information you have about a quantity, how uniquely you have it pinned down.

- **Integer** arithmetic enjoys the property of complete accuracy: if I have the integer "2", it is exactly 2, on the dot, and nobody can dispute that. Furthermore, if I add 1 to it, I know I will get exactly 3. Whatever operations I do with integers, provided there is no overflow, I will always get a number that matches the correct answer bit-for-bit. However, integers lack precision. Dividing both 5 and 4 by 2, for instance, will both yield 2. Integers are unable to keep track of the fractional part, so the information that I had a slightly bigger number than 4 (namely, 5) is lost in the process. Integers are too "chunky" to represent these finer gradations; using them is like building with bricks. If you want to make a cube, you know the bricks can represent it perfectly, but a sphere wouldn't come out quite as well (naturally, if the sphere is significantly larger than each brick, you might be able to get close enough).

- **Floating point** numbers are the exact opposite of integers with respect to accuracy and precision. They have good precision, since they never deliberately discard information representing your numbers. If you had enough bits, you could reverse any FP calculation to get the original number, just like how, with enough bits, you could represent an arbitrarily large integer. But floating point numbers have poor accuracy. If ints are like bricks, then floats might be thought of as silly putty. You have enough control to mold them into complex curved shapes, but they leave something to be desired when it comes to forming a specified target shape. Imagine trying to make a perfect cube out of silly putty—you'll never get those corners as sharp as they should be. In fact, in many cases there is literally no hope of a floating point answer's matching the correct answer bit for bit.

## resources:
- https://www.cprogramming.com/tutorial/floating_point/understanding_floating_point.html
- https://www.cprogramming.com/tutorial/floating_point/understanding_floating_point_representation.html